ARTICLE NATURE COMMUNICATIONS I DOI: 10.1038/ncomms14041 
s a mechanism to communicate with the microenviron- ment, tumour cells actively release large quantity of extracellular vesicles (E Vs), including exosomes, micro- vesicles (M Vs) or microparticles, and apoptotic bodies. These tumour-released EVs, which are abundant in the body fluids of patients with cancer, play a critical role in promoting tumour growth and progressionl'2. For example, NCI-H460 tumour cells actively release M Vs containing EMMPRIN, a transmembrane glycoprotein highly expressed by tumour cells, MV-encapsulated EMMPRIN that facilitates turnour invasion and metastasis via 3 stimulating matrix metalloproteinase expression in fibroblasts . Tumour cell exosomes also deliver active VVnt proteins to regulate target cell ß-catenin-dependent gene expression4. Cancer cell- derived microparticles bearing P-selectin glycoprotein ligand 1 accelerate thrombus formation in vivo, and by targeting P -selectin glycoprotein ligand 1 researchers were able to prevent thrombosis5. While these studies are exciting and suggest potential strategies for blocking metastasis, the mechanism underlying the active exocytosis of exosomes by tumour cells, however, remains unclear. Previous studies suggest that cellular exosome secretion activity is increased during tumorigenesis but the molecular basis for switching on the exocytosis process in tumour cells requires further clarification. The mechanisms that govern cell endosomal secretion have been extensively studied. Exosomes share structural and bio- chemical characteristic with intraluminal vesicles of multi- vesicular endosomes (MVEs). Studying trafficking of proteolipid protein in Oli-neu cells, Trajkovic et al.8 reported that the sphingolipid ceramide played a key role in triggering budding of exosomes into MVEs, and the release of exosomes was reduced after the inhibition of ceramide synthesis. Furthermore, Kosaka et al.9 found that neutral sphingomyelinase 2 was directly involved in promoting tumour cell endosomal secretion. Using an RNAi screen, Ostrowski et al.10 identified the role of Rab GTPases in promoting exosome secretion: among the small GTPases, Rab27a and Rab27b were involved in M VE docking to the plasma membrane. Like other cells, tumour cells employ the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) complex that many cell types utilize in the exocytic release of exosomesll The SNARE complex is comprised of proteins on membrane of budding vesicles (v-SNAREs) and proteins on the cell's membrane (t-SNAREs). The v-SNAREs and t-SNAREs enable the apposition of the vesicle and cell membranes and the subsequent fusion of the two membranes thereby mediating vesicle exocytosis. In tumour cells, the SNARE complex includes syntaxin-4 (ref. 12) and SNAP-23 (ref. 13) serving as t-SNAREs, while VAMP-2 (ref. 14) and VAMP-8 (refs 12,15) represent candidates for v-SNAREs. Phosphorylation of SNAP-23 not only directly increases cell 16,17 but also promotes association with other SNARE exocytosis proteins, thereby allowing the formation of the stable SNARE complex to enhance cell exocytosis18. In mast cells, SNAP-23 has been reported to be phosphorylated by IKB kinase (IKK) to 19,26 However, the kinase that phosphorylates promote exocytosis SNAP-23 in the turnour cell has not been identified. In the present study, we demonstrate that PKM2, an enzyme involved in the tumour cell's reliance on aerobic glycolysis (Warburg effect), plays a critical role in promoting the release of exosomes from the tumour cell. Specifically, we identify SNAP-23, which controls the docking and release of secretory granules or exosome-containing multivesicular bodies, is a substrate of PKM2 in turnour cells. During exosome secretion, phosphorylated PKM2 forms a dimer structure with low pyruvate kinase activity but high protein kinase activity21 and then associates with SNAP-23 near cell's membranes, leading to SNAP-23 phosphorylation at Ser95 and upregulation of tumour cell exosome release. We conclude that PKM2, following phosphorylation and dimerization, plays an essential role in not only switching tumour cell metabolism from oxidative phosphorylation to aerobic glycolysis, but also promoting tumour cell exosome secretion via directly phosphorylating SNAP-23. Results Exosome secretion requires high level of aerobic glycolysis. Exosomes released by various cell types were isolated from cell culture medium using exosome isolation kit and analysed by transmission electron microscopy and western blot (WB) using antibodies against exosomal marker proteins. As shown in Fig. la, tumour cells actively release exosomes, a double membrane vesicle with 50—100nm size, into the culture medium. The immune-gold label showed that exosomes expressed membrane protein CD63 (Fig. la, right lower panel). Expression of additional marker proteins such as CD63, Tsg101 and CD9 was validated by WB analysis (Fig. 1b). To monitor the concentration of exosomes released by tumour cells and non-tumour primary culture cells, a Nanosight NS 300 system (NanoSight) was used to track the release of exosomes (Fig. lc). Nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA) confirmed that the sizes of released exosomes are around 100 nm. In agreement with previous reports, we found that tumour cells (SW480, Hela, A549 and HepG2 cells) generally displayed more active exosome secretion than non-tumour mammalian cells, mouse primary myoblast and mammary epithelial cell (MEC) (Fig. Id). Interestingly, the increased exosome release by tumour cells is positively correlated to the higher aerobic glycolysis (Fig. le). In line with the positive correlation between aerobic glycolysis and exosome secretion observed in Fig. If, we found that glycolysis level was positively correlated with the amount of exosome release in tumour cells (Supplementary Fig. 1). To further examine the potential link between the exosome secretion and the aerobic glycolysis flow in the tumour cells, we treated A549 cells and HepG2 cells with aerobic glycolysis inhibitor shikonin22 or aerobic glycolysis promoter tumour necrosis factor (ref. 23), and then determined the alteration of exosome release from turnour cells. The results clearly showed that suppressed aerobic glycolysis by shikonin inhibited, whereas activated aerobic glycolysis by T NFff enhanced, the release of exosomes by tumour cells (Fig. lg). Identification of the dependence of exosome secretion process on cell gl*colysis is in agreement with previous findings in other cell types Previous reports showed that epidermal growth factor (EGF) and oleanolic acid (OA) can enhance or inhibit exosome secretion 25,26 , respectively. We next treated the A549 turnour cells process with EGF or OA and examined whether the effect of these reagents was mediated through alteration of tumour cell aerobic glycolysis. As shown in Fig. lh, EGF and OA significantly enhanced and suppressed aerobic glycolysis in A549 cells, respectively. We next examined whether the effect of EGF and OA was mediated through alteration of tumour cell aerobic glycolysis. As shown in Fig. li, EGF and OA significantly enhanced and suppressed aerobic glycolysis in A549 and HepG2 cells, respectively. Moreover, the effect EGF and OA on promoting or inhibiting A549 and HepG2 cells exosome exocytosis was abolished by decreasing or increasing aerobic glycolysis, respectively. These results collectively suggest that release of exosomes in tumour cells is dependent on cellular aerobic glycolysis. PKM2 plays a critical role in tumour cell exocytosis. PKM2 expression has been widely regarded as an important molecular 

NATURE COMMUNICATIONS | 8:14041 | DO : 10.1038/ncomms140411 v.vw.nature.com/naturecommunications 
